On 27 February 2025, on the website of the Chief Pharmacy Chamber, the notice on the implementation of the requirements for medicinal products and the interest of the media in the issue of withdrawal of authorisations for pharmacies, the Chief Pharmacy Inspector shall present the following position. 1. Issuing of medicines from the pharmacy on the basis of the need. The requirements of the entities carrying out medical activities (hereinafter referred to as "needs') constitute, in addition to the prescriptions, one of the forms of dispensing of medicinal products from pharmacies, which follows directly from Article 96 (1) of the Act of 6 September 2001 - Pharmaceutical Law (Journal of Laws of 2024, item No 686), as amended by:

The competent authority shall not formally exempt the pharmacy from verifying that the document is correct and that, in the light of the right to issue the products described there will not lead to a breach of the law. Any document giving rise to the issue of the medicinal product must be subject to the assessment of a pharmacist who has the appropriate knowledge of Warsaw, 20 March 2025. Łukasz Pietrzak Page 2 of 12 and the experience of living is obliged to refuse to issue the medicinal product if he has doubts as to the use of the medicinal product. This obligation applies equally to requirements and prescriptions and does not depend on who is the author of those documents.

This provision has a preventive function, i.e. it is intended to prevent abuse at this stage of distribution. Therefore, there is no doubt that the refusal to issue a medicinal product, in cases of suspicion as to non-medical use of the medicinal product, is an obligation, and not an authorisation of the pharmacist. This is underlined by the Supreme Administrative Court (hereinafter "NSA") in its judgment of 17 October 2024, file II "GSK 1080/21': "The need for (...) should not arise in the case of a legitimate suspicion that, although the document of need has been properly issued, but in the light of its nature and nature of the activities of the entity for which the request is carried out more clearly, with sufficient care, is to ascertain that the performance of the medicinal products concerned will result in an infringement of the law.

On the other hand, medical activities consist of the provision of outpatient health services, which, unlike stationary and 24-hour medical services, is characterised by an ad hoc nature. The provision of outpatient health services is characterised by a narrow list of services in relation to fixed or 24-hour facilities. Consequently, the scope of the outpatient medical services may be linked strictly to the scope of the medicinal products which may be provided to the patient in (see the judgment of the Minister of Justice in Warsaw of 18 February 2021, the mark: VI SA/Wa 2192/20). The outpatients and the operation of the outpatients are not necessary for the treatment of patients or for the sale of medicinal products.

In the case-law of the administrative courts, a view has been developed according to which the regulation clearly sets out the list of products which are intended for the performance of tasks by institutions providing outpatient health services. In Annex No 1 to that Regulation, the list of products which may be delivered to clinics on an ad hoc basis in connection with the provision of ad hoc health services is set out in an exhaustive manner by the indication of the active substances of the Regulation. This list is a closed catalogue. Thus, the operators of the pharmacies publicly available could not and still cannot meet the requirements for medicinal products not included in that Regulation (see, inter alia, the judgments of the NSA: of 17 October 2023, of act II GSK 855/23, of 19 September 2024 of the Order, of which the competent authorities of the Member State concerned may not carry out requirements for medicinal products not listed in that Regulation, of 17 May 2023.

it is difficult to imagine that the patient is taking this type of medicine as part of a health care provision and, in particular, that he is placing himself in the clinic for the purpose of taking the medicine on a daily basis. Cases of this type of demand by pharmacies since the beginning of the disclosure of such medicinal products have been and are also regarded as grossly in breach of the rules of doing business by pharmacies generally available for the loss of the care of the medicine. The scale of these activities has proved to be entirely necessary for the purpose of taking the medicine.

Fragmin, Fraxiparine, Fraxodi, Kreon, Pradaxa, RISPERDAL Consta, Tegretol, Xarelto, Zoladex (a medicinal product used in the treatment of prostate cancer), insulin - NovoMix 30 Penfill, Novorapid Penfill, Actrapid Penfill. Page 6 of 12 These products do not contain active substances listed in the MZ Regulation of 12 January 2011 and what is important part of the above mentioned medicinal products are regularly included in the notices of the Minister of Health on the list of medicinal products, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices at risk of not being available on the territory of the Republic of Poland (issued on the basis of Article 37av (14) of the Act). 8. The case law of the administrative courts. In the case of those cases, the act of the Minister of Health is not uniform and established in the case of those cases, according to which: 1) the MZ Regulation of 12 January 2011 constitutes the basic criterion for the assessment of products, which should be issued by the administrative courts on the basis of the requirements submitted by the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of Justice of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of which the Republic of the Republic of which the Republic of which the Republic of which the Republic of which the Republic of which the Republic of which the Republic of which the Republic of which the Republic of which the Republic of which the Republic of which the Republic of which the Republic of which the Republic of which the Republic of Justice of which the Republic of which the Republic of which the Republic of which the Republic of

