The requirements of entities carrying out medical activities (hereinafter referred to as "the request") constitute, in addition to the prescription, one of the forms of dispensing of medicinal products from pharmacies. Any document giving rise to the issue of a medicinal product must be subject to the assessment of a pharmacist who, having the appropriate knowledge of Warsaw, 20 March 2025. Łukasz Pietrzak Page 2 of 12.

Clinics and the emergency facilities thereof do not carry out pharmacovigilance or the sale of medicines. They are also not entitled to provide medicines free of charge to patients. The scope of services provided in outpatient procedures is closely linked to the scope of the medicinal products which may be supplied to the patient in (see the judgment of the WSA in Warsaw of 18 February 2021 , mark: VI SA/Wa 2192/20).

Act II GSK 865/21, , judgment of the NSA of 17 May 2023, Case II G SKS 367/20, CaseII GSK SA of 1 June 2021, Case VI SA/Wa 2671/20. (2) Case VI SA/Wa 2192/20 v Commission v Commission. (3) the operator of the pharmacy has expertise in respect of the nature of the medicinal product in need, use and dosage.

It is a gross violation of the rules of conduct in the form of a public pharmacy. In the event of disclosure of the measures referred to in point 6, the administrative penalty shall be the withdrawal of the authorisation. For example, the caselaw of the NSA: of 23 January 2024, of 16 November 2023, of Act II of GSK 955/20, of 17 October 2023.

Court of Justice of the European Union, acting on behalf of the Court of Justice, will take decisions in accordance with the law of the EU. In such cases, it is also not possible to give other sanctions e.g. an obligation to remedy the infringements found. (a) that procedure may be applied only in the event that an infringement in an objective sense is capable of being removed. (b) In the case of a person acting in the entire period of his activity, and the assessment being made in the light of the nature of the affected legal conditions and circumstances relating thereto.

The Court of Justice of the Court of the First Court of. Justice of Justice ruled that GSK had lost the right to conduct the pharmacy properly. The decision was made on page 10 of 12 regardless of the possibility of withdrawing the authorisation on another normative basis. The court ruled that both the laws on warranties and those required have not been substantially altered over the past years. It cannot be assumed that the acts in question in the form of abuse of requirements were legal and today are not.

Supreme Administrative Court does not find any arguments supporting the claim that the said provision should be read as a qualitative change (normative) in relation to the previous legal situation. The prohibition of the marketing of medicinal products is apparent from the previously existing legislation and rules. It is worth mentioning that the GIF's decisions issued in the last two years only concerned cases in which, on the basis of this mechanism, drugs of more than PLN 52 million were carried out.